.TH "ctys-XEN" 1 "June, 2010" ""


.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-XEN - XEN Interface\fR

.SH SYNTAX

   ctys -t XEN  -a action[=<suboptions>] ...
   ctys -T XEN  -a action[=<suboptions>] ...
   ctys -T ALL  -a action[=<suboptions>] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The \fBXEN\fR plugin adds support for sessions to
\fBVirtualMachines\fR of type 
\fBXen(TM)\fR.
The management of the virtual machines include particularly 
the support of boot and shutdown for local and remote virtual machines
including an inventory with accessible machines.
Stored machines on network devices could be accessed by multiple worker\-machines,
providing a multipath\-registration within the inventory.
The inventory is populated automatically by scanning the local
and remote filesystems and collecting the information of detected 
VMs into a local ASCII file\-database.

.P
The access to VMs is supported by the full scope of the \fB<machine\-address>\fR,
thus e.g. a user defined LABEL as a shortcut\-alias could be used.
The XEN plugin is "\fBVM\-STACK safe\fR" as it handles running embedded virtual machines
and emulators by propagating state change events(e.g. SHUTDOWN) of the execution platform to
contained hypervisors and emulators.

.P
The scope comprises for now the products
XEN community edition,
which are all TradeMarks of Citrix Inc.
The supported product versions are automatically detected, 
thus no furter parameters for version distinction are required.
Current version supports the server versions 3.x.
Updates will be available soon.

.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a <action>\fR

.P
For the complete Syntax refer to the depicted generic superset 
within the call\-framework \fBctys(1)\fR.

.TP
\fB\-a CANCEL\fR
The full <vm\-address> range is supported.
Particularly the wildcard\-attribute \fBALL\fR is provided for application on all sessions of selected and permissive user\-scope.

.TP
\fB\-a CREATE\fR
All standard parameters not listed here could be applied.

Dependent on the choosen parameter set some specific
CONSOLE types can \- whereas some cannot \- be applied. 

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:(CLI|XTERM|GTERM|EMACS|VNC|NONE)\fR
The appropriate settings for the choosen console has to be
prepared within the related config file.

The default CONSOLE could be pre\-set by the variable
\fBXEN_CONSOLE_DEFAULT\fR in the xen.conf file. 
The original default is \fBXTERM\fR.
The recommended text console for Gnome is GTERM, but any other 
could be set as default too.
.RE

.TS
center, allbox, tab(^); cllrl.
 \fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBXTERM\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR
 \fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBGTERM\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR
 \fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBEMACS\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR
 \fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBEMACSM\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR
 \fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBEMACSA\fR^\fBNBSP\fR^\fBNBSP\fR
 \fBNBSP\fR^\fBCLI\fR^\fBEMACSAM\fR^\fBVNC\fR^\fBNONE\fR
 CONNECTIONFORWARDING^\-^\-^X^X
 DISPLAYFORWARDING^X^X^X^X
 SERVERONLY^\-^X^\-^X
 CONNECT^X^X^X^X
 RECONNECT^X^X^X^X
 REUSE^X^X^X^X
 RESUME^X^X^X^X
 \fB\-b 0\fR \- foreground^B+M^A^A^X
 \fB\-b 1\fR \- background^\-^X^X^X
 \fB\-z 2\fR \- pseudotty^M^X^X^X
.TE


.TS
center, tab(^); l.
 \fBApplicable forwarding modes and call locations for XEN\fR
.TE


.nf
  X)   Supported.
  
  A.)  Supported, but will block the call-terminal 
       for the whole session, so might not be used 
       from a single-console environment.
  B.)  Blocks the console for other calls, thus 
       allows for bulk targets serial execution
       only.
  M.)  Mandatory, but could be suppressed with 
       "-z NOPTY" when a terminal with some 
       drawbacks is sufficient. One of specific
       than is that the password will be echoed 
       for some systems in cleartext, anyhow as 
       a lonely night-rider it might not hurt 
       you.
.fi


.TP
_

Types of CONSOLE to be applied depends on the \fB\-b\fR
parameter for background execution too.

The following behaviour applies:

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fB\-b 0 \- synchronous foreground execution\fR

In this mode the current execution thread is performed
synchronous in the foreground, this means particularly
a CLI based console cannot be detached, when multiple
tasks are in the queue in order to begin the next. Thus
it would result to blocking the remaining sessions
until the current has been finished by the caller.

This parameter is allowed to be applied, but the
caller has to be aware of the drawbacks, when choosing
multiple execution targets.

.IP \(bu 3
\fB\-b 1 \- synchronous background execution\fR

In this mode the DomU will be started by different means
for XTERM and VNC only.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:CLI\fR

Will be generally rejected, because multiple
execution targets cannot be handled by a single
physical console, and one target could be perfectly
handled by *\-b 0*.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:GTERM\fR

The \fBgnome\-terminal\fR which is currently simply
mapped to XTERM.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:XTERM\fR

Starts first an xterminal by using the X11 module
and initiates the startup of the DomU within the
Xterminal session as a native and synchronous call
to \fBxm \-c ...\fR. So it is basically the asynchronous
variant of a CLI call.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:EMACS\fR

The \fBEmacs\fR is started in shell\-mode, this supports the full scope
of edit features on the output buffer.
The basic principle is similar to any X11 console with an embedded
CLI interface.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:VNC\fR

This case is somewhat different to the previous, in
the way that two independent calls for the DomU
itself are required.

.IP \(bu 3
The DomU has to be started, which is performed by
calling \fBxm <conf>\fR.

.IP \(bu 3
The VNCviewer has to be attached to the offered
port by the DomU.
Therefore a timeout will be applied, which could
be controlled by the environment variable
\fBXEN_CONSOLE_DOMU_INIT_WAIT\fR,
which is used for a sleep\-call.

So, due to buffer handling some console messages
could probably be lost.

The client call is in internal call to VNC plugin,
which is basically completely independent and could
be applied separately.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE:NONE\fR
No console is started, any type could be connected later. 
\fB\-z 2 \- force allocation of a pty by ssh\fR
Allocates a pty.
.RE

.TP
\fB<callopts>\fR

When <callopts> are given, these will be passed
through to the call:

.nf
  xm [-c] <conf-path> <callopts>
.fi


For additional information refer to Xen manual.

.TP
\fB\-g <geometry>|<geometryExtended>\fR

The geometry has no effect on the server started within the
DomU. Just the client will be set:

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBCLI\fR
Not appliccable.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBXTERM|GTERM\fR

The size Xsiz and Ysiz provide the UNIT of CHARACTERS only.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBVNC\fR
As expected.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-L <execution\-location>\fR
.nf
  
  <execution-location>=(
     (LOCALONLY|LO)
     | (CONNECTIONFORWARDING|CF)
     | (DISPLAYFORWARDING|DF)
     | (SERVERONLY|SO)
    )
  
.fi


.TP
\fB\-r <resolution>\fR
Not supported.

.TP
\fB<xopts>\fR

Refer to common options parts description.

.P
\&.

.SH NOTES
.P
The XEN plugin adds support for XEN sessions where the client types 

.P
\fBCLI\fR
,
\fBVNC\fR
,
and 
\fBX11\fR
are supported.

.P
Any non\-listed standard option of ctys applies as defined. In
cases of divergent behaviour for similar options, and options
with specific suboptions, these are listed in this section.

.P
There are some specifics to be recognized and/or applied specific
to Xen. This is primarily due to it's nature of the hypervisor
interface, where DomU\-s are children of the one and only Dom0,
which is not \fBvisible\fR to \fBps\fR as a normal process, but to the
specific tools \fBxm\fR and \fBvirsh\fR. Where virsh is part of \fBlibvirt\fR
but prerequired for ctys.

.P
One main challange in combination of access to restricted system
resources is the requirement of root permissions for some calls to
manage DomU\-s. This requires for user\-level on demand 
\fBCREATE\fR and \fBCANCEL\fR
the configuration of \fBsudo\fR or \fBksu\fR.

.P
Some drawbacks for the common applied tricks of ctys, using the
\fBCLI\fR and \fBps\fR as an dynamic storage and exchange interface for
runtime information are not working in the altered runtime
environment. Even though particularly the \fBvirsh dumpxml\fR call
offers a variety of information. One missing data, that really
hurts is the missing information of the used configuration file
for the list\-ed or dumpxml\-ed domain. The \fBsource file\fR is
available \- which is the virtual boot\-device. But this does not
allow an back annotation to related configuration file \- this
could be just safely defined by additional naming convention, what
is done within ctys for simplicity.

.P
Another specifics is a legacy of ctys, which is the definition of
ID as a static unique identifier for a VM and PM entity, which
does not change, when the entity changes it's state to
offline. Resulting of this, the
\fBID\fR is for \fBVMW\fR, \fBPM\fR,
and \fBXEN\fR the
fully qualified pathname of the configuration file, which is 
not necessarily unique, due to NFS mounted shares on multiple PMs
and/or VMs. This is still not unique, when combining the PMs
hostname and the pathname of the configuration file, because the
contained IDs, e.g. TCP/IP address, MAC address, and UUID are now
available within multiple entities, and thus will be listed as
though when using administrative management utilities. Anyhow, it
should be at least guaranteed by the user, that the entities are
unique within the scope a single node. The toolset is prepared to
handle various constellations, but it makes the selection by the
user easier.

.P
For this the following shortcuts and conventions apply.

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
The \fBDomain\-ID\fR as provided by Xen is for now ignored, the
Domain\-Name is required to be unique, so the LABEL, which is
the Domain\-Name, is sufficient as selection criteria. This is
anyhow a static constant identifier, which is not true for the
Xen\-Domain\-ID.

The Domain\-ID within ctys \- \fBIDS\fR for ctys\-vhost \- is a
holomorphic identifier, which is for machines \- VMs and PMs \-
a configuration filepathname, for types of the category HOSTs a
dynamic system generated ID such as a PID, DISPLAY, or port. 

Therefore the Domain\-ID for Xen within ctys is the filepathname
of the configuration file. This is particularly important due
to stored information within the configuration file itself, or
within the same directory. Due to the only available
filepathname for the boot\-image of the DomU instance by
\fBvirsh\fR, the fixed \- maybe already widely applied \- convention
is defined, that the configuration file has to be coallocated
within the same directory as the virtual boot device for the
DomU and to be named the same as the name of the containing
directory. This has not necessarily to be the LABEL which is
the Domain\-Name of the DomU, but could be. SO boot devices,
which are physical, not virtual files, are not supported for
now.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBNO SPACES\fR within ANY entry are supported.

.IP \(bu 3
When multiple LAN interfaces are configured, the MAC\-addresses
are indexed by their actual order\-increment, beginning from 0.
These are permuttated with any provided TCP address of the same index.
E.g. MAC0 => eth0 => {IP0=10.1.1.1, IP0=11.1.1.1}.

.IP \(bu 3
Due to the variety of consoles \- CLIENTS \- which could be
attached and are not simply correlated, the LIST action only
displays the SERVER components, which are Dom0/DomU, the
clients has to be listed by an extra call to CLI, X11, and/or
VNC.

.IP \(bu 3
The execution of the creation by \fBxm\fR and some \fBvirsh\fR access
permissions has to be activated and required to be with root
permissions. Therefore the configuration file \fB/etc/sudoers\fR
and/or \fB/root/.k5users\fR has to be configured. The access
privileges by \fBsudo\fR and \fBksu \-e\fR will be checked and set
appropriately. The variable \fBXENCALL\fR and \fBVIRSHCALL\fR could be
preconfigured.

.IP \(bu 3
The execution of XEN requires in any case the VNC module.

.IP \(bu 3
The version supported by XEN is the 3.x version. The tested and
verified version is Xen\-3.0.3 of the CentOS\-5.0 distribution,
even though any 3.x version might work. The version evaluation
is done by usage of rpm or xm or virsh or xmtrace. The
installation paths are evaluated by which call and should be
prepared for execution by PATH.

.IP \(bu 3
Due to the warning\-output of some tools, this is fetched as
ctys \embox{WARNING}, which could be fully activated by 
\fB\-d\fR option.
.IP \(bu 3
Particularly the \fBD_SYS\fR debug\-level, which traces all system calls,
might be helpful for tracing permission settings.

\-  The XEN plugin is stack\-aware, though prepared to propagate
CREATE and CANCEL actions, same for LIST. 

.IP \(bu 3
\fBXEN_CONSOLE_DOMU_INIT_WAIT\fR
This variable contains the sleep value after \fBxm create ...\fR
and before calling a \fBgnome\-terminal\fR or \fBxterm\fR. Therefore in
case of a machine which has difficulties due it's performance
the value could be adjusted. The current value of 8seconds
seems to be safe for initialization of created DomU.
.RE

.P
Templates and recipes for installation of Xen on CentOS\-5 are
available in 
XEN\-Install.

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
\fIctys(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-CLI(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-configuration\-XEN(7)\fR
,
\fIctys\-createConfVM(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-plugins(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-uc\-XEN(7)\fR
,
\fIctys\-vhost(1)\fR
, \fIvirsch(18)\fR
, 
\fIctys\-VNC(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-X11(1)\fR
, \fIxm(1)\fR

.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.
.RE

.P
The whole document \- all sections \- is/are defined as invariant.

.P
For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-XEN.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.013/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man1/ctys-XEN.1

