.TH "ctys-uc-RDP" 1 "June, 2010" ""


.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-uc-RDP - Use-Cases for RDP - Remote Desktop Protocol\fR

.SH USE-CASES
.SS General
.P
The RDP plugin supports access to remote desktops by the RDP protocol.
The access could be an application, terminal server, or hypervisor 
supporting the RDP protocol.

.SS Start a Local Desktop Session
.P
This opens a local session, where the server as well as the
RDP client are executed locally.

.nf
  
  ctys -t RDP -a create=l:tst1,RDPPORT:3389
  
.fi


.P
The "localhost" is hard\-coded to behave as a sub\-shell call too, thus
the following call is internally handled identical to the previous

.nf
  
  ctys -t RDP -a create=l:tst1,RDPPORT:3389  $USER@localhost
  
.fi


.P
This case is called \fBDISPLAYFORWARDING\fR which is almost the same as the X11 display forwarding.

.TS
center, tab(^); l.
 \fBRefer to PDF/HTML for figure: DISPLAYFORWARDING\fR
.TE


.SS Start a Remote Desktop with a Local Client
.P
In case of a "Remote Desktop with Local Client" the server is running 
on the given <execution\-target>, whereas the client is locally started
on the caller's machine. 
This structure is called CONNECTIONFORWARDING and requires beneath the
client and server processes a third, the connecting encrypted tunnel.
The tunnel is established by means of OpenSSH and used as the local
peer for the Client. 
This whole procedure of starting the  processes and the
establishment of the tunnel is controlled and preformed by ctys.
The user has nothing else to do than setting the option
\fB'\-L CONNECTIONFORWARDING'\fR or for short \fB'\-L CF'\fR.

.TS
center, tab(^); l.
 \fBRefer to PDF/HTML for figure: DISPLAYFORWARDING\fR
.TE


.P
The scenario performed behind the scene by ctys varies slightly from
the previous.
In case of CONNECTIONFORWARDING the whole process is set up in two
steps.

.RS
.IP 1. 3
establishment of the encrypted tunnel
.IP 2. 3
start and connect the client process to the tunnel
.RE

.P
The tunnel is established in the so
called \fBone\-shot mode\fR, where the connection is opened for an inital time
period and closes automatically when the life\-time threshhold is reached
without an actual usage,
or afterwards, when the client and server are disconnected. 
The period of the initial timeout for is defined by the variable
"SSH_ONESHOT_TIMEOUT", which is by default set to 20seconds.

.P
The following call starts a local client for a remote server.

.nf
  
  ctys -t rdp -a create=l:tst -L CF lab00
  
.fi


.P
The instances could be listed by the LIST action in several variants.
The basic call with default selection executed on the caller
workstation is:

.nf
  
  ctys -t rdp -a list ws2
  
.fi


.P
The standard assignment to LIST call is "tab_tcp,both", which
displays:

.nf
  
  TCP-container|TCP-guest|label |sesstype|c|user|group    
  -------------+---------+------+--------+-+----+---------
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst000|RDP     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst001|RDP     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |ws2.soho.|ws2   |PM      |S|-   |-        
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst000|SSH(RDP)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst001|SSH(RDP)|T|acue|ldapusers
  
.fi


.P
Here the two tunnels could be identified as "sesstype=SSH(RDP)", and
"c=T". This indicates, that the tunnels are created for the subsystem
RDP with  the session label "tst000" and "tst001".

.P
The following call displays the same table, but with IDs instead of
LABELs.

.nf
  
  ctys -t rdp -a list=tab_tcp,id ws2
  
.fi


.P
Which results to the display:

.nf
  
  TCP-cont|TCP-guest|id        |sesstype|c|user|group    
  --------+---------+----------+--------+-+----+---------
  ws2.soho|-        |3389      |RDP     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |3390      |RDP     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |../pm.conf|PM      |S|-   |-        
  ws2.soho|-        |5950-3389 |SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |5951-3390 |SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  
.fi


.P
Indicating by the default ID of tunnels, that these are tunnels
forwarding the ports "5950" to "3389" and "5951" to "3390".

.P
The display could be changed as required by usage of specific
free\-customized tables, e.g. displaying LABEL and ID columns once.

.P
The call with the whole set of involved machines as one call results to:

.nf
  
  ctys -t rdp -a list=tab_tcp,id ws2 lab00 lab01
  
.fi


.nf
  
  ctys -t rdp -a list=tab_tcp,id ws2 lab00 lab01
  
    
  TCP-contai|TCP-guest|id        |sesstype|c|user|group    
  ----------+---------+----------+--------+-+----+---------
  ws2.soho  |-        |3389      |RDP     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho  |-        |3390      |RDP     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho  |-        |d/pm.conf |PM      |S|-   |-        
  ws2.soho  |-        |5950-3389 |SSH(RDP)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho  |-        |5951-3390 |SSH(RDP)|T|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |3784      |CLI     |C|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |31206     |CLI     |C|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |1         |VNC     |S|root|root     
  lab00.soho|-        |2         |VNC     |S|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |          |XEN     |S|-   |-        
  lab00.soho|-        |e/xen/tst1|XEN     |S|-   |-        
  lab00.soho|-        |d/pm.conf |PM      |S|-   |-        
  lab01.soho|-        |          |XEN     |S|-   |-        
  lab01.soho|-        |d/pm.conf |PM      |S|-   |-        
  
.fi


.SS Start Remote Desktop Sessions by Native-RDP
.P
This opens a remote session by using the RDP protocol via a
remote connection to a boxed application or a terminal server.
In this case actually the RDP client is  attached 'from\-outside'
to an access port.
This differs from the preferred 'localhost\-access', where a
pre\-authorisation by SSH access is performed.
Thus it is an exception to the common philosopy and therefore
called 'INSECURE'.

.P
The main application is the access to appliance\-boxes when these
provide an RDP access only, or to MS\-Windows(TM) based OS.

.nf
  
  ctys -t RDP -a create=l:tst1,RDPPORT:3389,INSECURE:lab02
  
.fi


.P
Same could be applied in a relay\-configuration.

.nf
  
  ctys -t RDP -a create=l:tst1,RDPPORT:3389,INSECURE:lab02 lab05
  
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
.P
\fIctys(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-plugins(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-RDP(1)\fR

.P
\fBFor System Tools:\fR

.P
\fIrdesktop\fR: [ http://www.rdesktop.org ]

.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.
.RE

.P
The whole document \- all sections \- is/are defined as invariant.

.P
For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-uc-RDP.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.014/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man7/ctys-uc-RDP.7

