.TH "ctys-groups" 1 "August, 2010" ""

.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-groups -  lists groups from groups DB and groups caches\fR

.SH SYNTAX
.P
\fBctys-groups\fR 

   [-c]
   [-d <level>]
   [-D <deepness-level>]
   [-e [<group-list>|<path-list>]]
   [-F]
   [-h]
   [-H <help-options>]
   [-l]
   [-m <1|2|3|4|5|6|7|7u|8|8u>]
   [-S]
   [-V]
   [-X]
   [<group-list>]



.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBctys\-groups\fR lists and displays groups from groups DB and groups caches. This
tool utilizes ctys\-vhost and adds some usability to the more detailed interface parameters.

.P
The display can be applied for specific groups, subtrees, or for nested groups.
Also a tree\-view based on the UNIX command tree is included, which supports the listing of
components and subtrees from the variable CTYS_GROUPS_PATH.

.P
The output format of each group entry for default short\-listing is:

.nf
  <size-kbytes> <#records>/<#includes> <internal> <group-filename>
  
.fi


.P
For additional information of groups syntax refer to 
\&'\fBGroupResolution\fR'.

.P
The '\-e' option provides by default for Emacs based edit
, but could be 
adapted by configuration of CTYS_GROUPSEDIT

.P
\&.

.SH OPTIONS
.P
\fBctys-groups\fR 

.TP
\fB\-c\fR
List cached groups the output format is:

.nf
  <filesize> <lines=members> <group-cache-file-path>
.fi


.TP
\fB\-d <level>\fR
Debug.

.TP
\fB\-D <deepness\-level>\fR
Display structure of groups with the given level of resursion deepness.

.TP
\fB\-e [<group\-list>|<path\-list>]\fR
Edit one or multiple groups by \fBEmacs\fR. 
When no argument is provided the 
CTYS_GROUPS_PATH is evaluated and an Emacs instance is 
opened with all present directories.
When a directory and/or group list \- which is actually a file list \- is provided,
these are searched for the relative path provided, first from current directory, 
than by using each \fBexisting entry\fR within \fBCTYS_GROUPS_PATH\fR as a prefix.
Absolute paths are just evaluated for providing a valid filename/pathname.

The default editor could be configured within the distribution specific configuration
file by 
\fBCTYS_GROUPSEDIT\fR. Currently preconfigured editors/starters are: Emacs, gvim, vim, konqueror, and nautilus.

.TP
\fB\-F\fR
Display file structure of groups with the given level in \fB\-D\fR option.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print help.

.TP
\fB\-H <help\-option>\fR
The extended help option is based on system interfaces for display of
manpages, PDF  and HTML documents.
This comprises the man pages and installed manuals.

For additional help refer to the documents or type \fBctys \-H help\fR.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Lists group definitions.

.nf
  <filesize> <lines=members> <group-name>
.fi


.TP
\fB\-m <1|2|3|4|5|6|7|7u|8|8u>\fR
List group members in different formats.

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
1 listing
.IP \(bu 3
2 listing
.IP \(bu 3
3 listing
.IP \(bu 3
4 callable for cut\-and\-paste
.IP \(bu 3
5 callable for cut\-and\-paste
.IP \(bu 3
6 listing of contained remote accounts in EMail format
.IP \(bu 3
7 account list for machine processing
.IP \(bu 3
7u account list for machine processing, with stripped redundancies.
.IP \(bu 3
8 host list for machine processing
.IP \(bu 3
8u host list for machine processing, with stripped redundancies.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-S\fR
Display directory structure of groups with the given level of deepness in \fB\-D\fR option.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Version.

.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Terse.

.P
\&.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB[<group\-list>]\fR
An optional list of groups to be displayed only, if not provided all
present groups from directories within the variable CTYS_GROUPS_PATH
are scanned and displayed.
For additional information refer to the S\-OPTION\-OF\-CTYS\-VHOST.
The format of <group\-list> is:

.nf
  <group-list> =: <group-name>[(%| )<group-list>]
.fi


The seperator is here slightly different from the "ctys\-vhost" option.
For ctys\-groups optionally the common suboptions\-argument seperator
"%" or the common UNIX arguments seperator "SPACE" could be used as
seperator.

The usage of the listed <group\-names> is as follows:

.TP

\fBname\fR
The name is expected to be a group name, so search is performed
for a file of name "name".

.TP

\fBname/\fR
The name is expected to be a directory name, so search is performed
for a subdirectory within the CTYS_GROUPS_PATH.
All files within that subtree are listed.

.TP

\fBname01/name02/name03/\fR
The path is expected to be a subdirectory pathname, so search is performed
for a subdirectory\-path within the CTYS_GROUPS_PATH.
All files within that subtree are listed.

.TP

\fB/name01/name02/name03/\fR
The path is expected to be an absolute directory pathname, so search is performed
within the subtree of given path only.
All files within that subtree are listed.

.TP

\fB/name01/name02/name03/name\fR
The name is expected to be an absolute filename, so test is performed
for that file only.

.P
The nested containment hierarchy by "include" is expanded before
output in any case.
The following example lists the \fBdesktop/\fR and \fBscan/\fR directories.

.nf
  ctys-groups  scan/ desktops/
.fi


.P
\&.

.SH EXIT-VALUES
.TP
 0: OK:
Result is valid.

.TP
 1: NOK:
Erroneous parameters.

.TP
 2: NOK:
Missing an environment element like files or databases.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBctys executables\fR
\fIctys\-macros(1)\fR, \fIctys\-vhost(1)\fR

.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.

The whole document \- all sections \- is/are defined as invariant.
.RE

.P
For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-groups.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.015/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man1/ctys-groups.1

