.TH "ctys-distribute" 1 "May, 2010" ""

.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-distribute - local and remote installation, bulk-distribution\fR

.SH SYNTAX
.P
\fBctys-distribute\fR 


   [-d <debug-options>]
   [-D (0|1)]
   [-F (1|2|3|force|forceclean|forceall)]
   [-h]
   [-H <help-options>]
   [-l <remote login>]
   [-L <remote-login>]
   [-M <access-mask>]
   [-P (
       UserHomeCopy
      |UserHomeLinkonly
      |SharedAnyDirectory,<subopts>
      |SharedAnyLinkonly,<subopts>
      |AnyDirectory,<subopts>
      )]
   [-R <remote-host>]
   [-V]
   [-X]
   <list-of-target-acounts>






.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBctys\-distribute\fR is the main interface for local installation and 
remote distribution. The installation of a single target and an
arbitrary list of targets for automated bulk installations is provided.

.P
Various distribution and installation methods for distribution packages
and installation types could be applied, these are for the current
version:

.TP
\fBFile based installation:\fR
File based installation uses an existing installation or any copy of
the directory tree and either copies it and/or sets appropriate
symbolic links for execution.

In case of remote installation the current version uses excessive local\-remote\-interaction
by \fBssh/scp\fR based commands, thus for practical reasons requires automated remote login procedures.
These could be for example either based on Kerberos or SSH\-Keys.

The following keys are required to be written literally when applied.

.TP

\fBUserHomeCopy\fR
installs for the current local or remote user a user\-local
copy into it's HOME directory with the standard ctys\-directory
structure.

.TP

\fBUserHomeLinkonly\fR
installs for the current local or remote user a partial
user\-local copy, where the specific configuration files are copied, 
whereas the executables and documentation is set as symbolic
links only. 

.TP

\fBSharedAnyDirectory\fR
variant installs a local copy for share usaged, thus sets up
a common installation within any directory, but should be in 
accordance to common standards of the actual UNIX variant.

.TP

\fBAnyDirectory\fR
variant installs a local copy only for shared usage.

.TP
\fBPackage based installation\fR
Package based installation is forseen by means of the standard mechanisms.
"ctys\-distribute" could be used as a installer for the following install
applications:

.TP

\fBrpm\fR
The distributions \fBrpm\-CentOS\fR, \fBrpm\-Fedora\fR, and \fBrpm\-OpenSUSE\fR are supported by the provided rpms.
In the "install section" ctys\-distribute can be applied as:

.nf
  
  INSTBASE=${RPM_BUILD_ROOT}/usr/share
  INSTTARGET=${INSTBASE}/${RPM_PACKAGE_NAME}-${RPM_PACKAGE_VERSION}
  
  ${PWD}/bin/ctys-distribute.sh -F 1 -P AnyDirectory,${INSTTARGET} localhost
  
.fi


This installs the complete package without configuration of user accounts.

The user accounts have to be configured by calling:

.nf
  
  /usr/share/bin/ctys-distribute.sh -F 1 -P UserHomeLinkonly localhost
  
  
.fi


.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBdeb\fR
ffs.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBpkg\-OpenBSD\fR
ffs.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBpkg\-Solaris\fR
ffs.
.RE

.P
The utilitiy scp of the OpenSSH package is used for any transfer, thus 
remote SSH access is required.

.P
The call evaluates its own actual physical file location by recursive 
dereferencing symbolic links and uses the actual containing distribution 
for further steps. 
Thus if a specific distribution outside the search path is to be installed, the
call path has to be provided explicitly:
<path\-to\-installbase>/bin/ctys\-distribute

.P
\&.

.SH OPTIONS
.P
\fBctys-distribute\fR 

.TP
\fB\-d <debug\-args>\fR
Refer to "ctys" generic options for additional information.

.TP
\fB\-D (0|1|2)\fR
This option controls whether documentation is installed or not. For
low\-bandwidth the documentation could be suppressed.

\fB0\fR No documents

\fB1\fR With documents

\fB2\fR Only documents

.TP
\fB\-F (1|2|3|force|forceclean|forceall)\fR
Bypassed to ctys\-install1.sh

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print help, refer to "\-H" for additional information.

.TP
\fB\-H <help\-option>\fR
The extended help option is based on system interfaces for display of
manpages, PDF  and HTML documents.
This comprises the man pages and installed manuals.

For additional help refer to the documents or type \fBctys \-H help\fR.

.TP
\fB\-l <remote login>\fR
The remote USER to be used as a EMail style prefix for all given
remote hostnames within the <list\-of\-target\-acounts>.
This option is supported with hostname\-only targets, it
cannot be intermixed with EMail style <USER>@<HOST> targets.

.TP
\fB\-L <remote login>\fR
The remote user for the inherent beamer function to place the execution immediately
on an arbitrary execution relay.
The semantics is somewhat different from the ordinary remote operations, which is 
application specific, whereas this 'beam\-up' is a generic pre\-execution forwarding.

.TP
\fB\-M <access\-mask>\fR
Access mask for post\-chmod, where the value is literally passed to:

"chmod \-R <access\-mask> <base\-lib\-dir>"

The user\-local file access permissions remain unmodified.

.TP
\fB\-P <pkg\-type>\fR
This option supports the selection of prepared installation packages,
which are automated by preconfigured parameters or to be finished by
interactive dialogue from the command line interface.

The packages are prepared during build operations within the local
"packages" directory for the current version.

For system directory appropriate access permissions are required.

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBUserHomeCopy\fR:

Creates a copy in $HOME/lib and sets links to $HOME/bin.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBUserHomeLinkonly\fR:

Creates sets links to $HOME/bin from execution directory.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBSharedAnyDirectory\fR,\fI<install\-directory>\fR[,\fI<link\-directory>\fR]:

The links will be set within the standard directory conventions.

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fI<install\-directory>\fR:
Directory for installation of non\-user specific files.

.IP \(bu 3
\fI<link\-directory>\fR:
The links to be set, default is "${HOME}/bin".

.RE
.IP \(bu 3
\fBSharedAnyLinkonly\fR,\fI<reference\-directory>\fR,\fI<link\-directory>\fR:

Any directory could be linked, this could be used e.g. for providing
sysmbolic links within standard search PATH.

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fI<reference\-directory>\fR:
Directory for targets of symbolic links to non\-user specific files.

.IP \(bu 3
\fI<link\-directory>\fR:
The links to be set.

.RE
.IP \(bu 3
\fBAnyDirectory\fR,\fI<install\-directory>\fR:

Copies only without setup of configuration.
Foreseen for build process only.

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fI<install\-directory>\fR:
Directory for installation of non\-user specific files.
.RE
.RE

.TP
\fB\-R <remote\-host>\fR
The remote host for the inherent beamer function to place the execution immediately
on an arbitrary execution relay.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Version.

.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Terse output format, effects "\-V" when set left\-of.

.P
\&.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fB<list\-of\-target\-acounts>\fR
The target accounts appropriate for the ssh/scp\-call, where the
install process shout be executed.

The provided formats are a list of EMail style hostnames or pure
hostnames. EMail style hostnames are not supported in conjunction with
the "\-l" option.

For any hostname without a user\-prefix either the current USER or the
user from the "\-l" option is prepended.

.P
\&.

.SH EXIT-VALUES
.TP
 0: OK:
Result is valid.

.TP
 1: NOK:
Erroneous parameters.

.TP
 2: NOK:
Missing an environment element like files or databases.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBctys use\-cases\fR
ffs.

.TP
\fBctys plugins\fR
.TP
  \fBPMs\fR
\fIctys\-PM(7)\fR
.TP
  \fBVMs\fR
\fIctys\-KVM(7)\fR, \fIctys\-QEMU(7)\fR, \fIctys\-VMV(7)\fR, \fIctys\-XEN(7)\fR, \fIctys\-VBOX(7)\fR
.TP
  \fBHOSTS\fR
\fIctys\-CLI(7)\fR, \fIctys\-PM(7)\fR, \fIctys\-VNC(7)\fR, \fIctys\-X11(7)\fR

.TP
\fBctys executables\fR
\fIctys\-genmconf(1)\fR, \fIctys\-install(1)\fR, \fIctys\-plugins(1)\fR, \fIctys\-vhost(1)\fR

.TP
\fBsystem executables\fR
ffs.

.SH AUTHOR
.P
Written and maintained by Arno\-Can Uestuensoez:

.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.

For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.
.RE


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-distribute.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.002/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man1/ctys-distribute.1

