.TH "ctys-RDP" 1 "June, 2010" ""


.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-RDP - Remote Desktop Protocol Interface\fR

.SH SYNTAX
.P
\fBctys-RDP\fR 


   ctys -t RDP -a action[=<suboptions>] ...
   ctys -T RDP -a action[=<suboptions>] ...
   ctys -T ALL -a action[=<suboptions>] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
\fBATTENTION:\fR
This plugin is actually in \fBalpha\-release\fR, thus might have some drawbacks.
The interface and integration of tools is going to be extended, currently
\fBrdesktop\fR is the only supported client.

.P
This plugin manages RDP sessions to LINUX/UNIX OS.
Due to the intention of the RDP protocol this plugin has only a client component and
utilizes any server providing RDP client attachement.
The RDP plugin encapsulates and handles the complete interaction with the local and remote
components provided by means of the client \fBrdesktop\fR.

.P
SSH based connections are the only one supported, thus the only actual connections allowed
are to 'localhost'.
In case of servers not offering the local\-only attachement the user should setup additional
security measures e.g. by activating packetfilter rules.

.P
The sessions are generally categorized into two basic configurations, the coallocation of the 
client with the targeted server \- \fBDISPLAYFORWARDING\fR \- and the distributed client and server
location on different hosts \- \fBCONNECTIONFORWARDING\fR.
In the latter case an intermediary SSH tunnel is created.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a action[=<suboptions>]\fR

.TP
\fBCANCEL\fR
.nf
  
  CANCEL=(<machine-address>)\e{1,n\e}
    |ALL
    (
      [FORCE|STACK][,]
      [SELF][,]
      [
        RESET|REBOOT
        |(INIT:<init-state>)
        |(PAUSE|S3)|(SUSPEND|S4)
        |((POWEROFF|S5)[:<timeoutBeforeKillVM>]
      ][,]
    [CLIENT|SERVER|BOTH]
    )
  
.fi


.TP

\fB<machine\\-address>\fR
For VNC the following parts of a <machine\-address> are applicable:
ID|I, LABEL|L

When the VNCviewer/VNCserver is used in the default shared\-mode,
the address applies to all sharing VNCclients/vncviewer are handled
as one logical unit and CANCEL is applied to all at once.

The address could be supported with multiple instances.

.TP

\fBALL|BOTH|CLIENT|SERVER\fR

ALL and BOTH kill clients and servers on local machine.
Remote clients by CONNECTIONFORWARDING might be exiting
when server\-loss is detected.
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
The \fBSERVER\fR scope 
is actually for VNC the same as ALL or
BOTH, this is due to the default (non\-server) behaviour
of attached clients, which exit when detecting a
server\-loss.
.IP \(bu 3
The \fBCLIENT\fR scope 
just kills all client processes by
means of OS, which is simply calling kill on their
PID. The server processes remain untouched.

.RE
.TP

\fBREBOOT|RESET|INIT|SUSPEND\fR
These methods just behave as a "soft\-kill" which is a
more or less soft shutdown, for VNC only! Application
shutdown is not supported.
So in this case first all clients are killed, following
a call to "vncserver \-kill :<id>"
for all matched. No additional action is performed in case of a
failure.

.TP

\fBPOWEROFF\fR
These method could be seen as a "hard\-kill" which is a
trial to "soft\-kill" and an immediate following process
kill by means of native OS. Thus there might be
definetly no difference to a controlled shutdown of VNC
managing unprepared applications.

The session(s) are basically just killed, so the caller
is resposible for appropriate handling of contained jobs.

.TP
\fBCREATE\fR
.nf
  CREATE=[<machine-address>]
     [REUSE|CONNECT|RECONNECT|RESUME]
     [CONSOLE:<rdesktop>]
     [(CALLOPTS|C):<callopts>]
     [(XOPTS|X):<xopts>]
     [(SHELL|S):<shell>]
     [(CMD):<cmd>]
     [(INSECURE):<ext-host>]
.fi


.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fB<machine\-address>\fR
For VNC the following parts of a \embox{<machine\-address>} are applicable:
LABEL|L

When the VNCviewer/VNCserver is used in shared\-mode, the
address applies to all sharing VNCclients/vncviewers.
The LABEL suboption is here mandatory.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBBOOTMODE\fR
Not applicable.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONNECT\fR
Almost the same as \embox{REUSE}, but no new server will be
started if missing.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE\fR
Current version supports \fBrdesktop\fR.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBINSECURE <ext\-host>\fR
The external(!=localhost) host to be accessed by remotely attached RDP
client.
This is foreseen for blackboxes and access to MS\-Windows(TM) based 
hosts.
It should not be forced for UNIX/Linux based boxes.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBPING\fR
Not applicable.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBRECONNECT\fR
Similiar to REUSE, with the difference, that any
previous active client will be killed before attaching
ONE new client. Therefore in shared mode, when multiple
clients could simultaneously share one server, all
sharing clients are handled as one logical unit and will
be thus killed together.
Specific exchange of a single client is not supported.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBRESUME\fR
Not applicable.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBREUSE\fR
When a server process with matching ID or LABEL is
already running it will be used, else a new one will be
started.
In case of non\-shared\-mode operations of VNC any running
vncviewer will be killed by disconnecting through the
VNCserver. This is almost the same behaviour as for
RECONNECT.
When running in shared\-mode, just an additional
vncviewer will be attached to the server.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBSSHPING\fR
Not applicable.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBUSER\fR
Not applicable.
.RE

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBVNCPORT\fR
Port to be used literally, required for several VMs with
fixed Server\-Ports.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBWAITC:<delay\-after\-viewer\-call>\fR
Delay after start of vncviewer, internally used as delay before
check of PID for JOBDATA.
Might not be really required to be varied, but provided for
completeness.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBWAITS:<delay\-before\-viewer\-call>\fR
Delay for start of vncviewer, required when the
execution is too fast for the \embox{VNCserver} to finish it's init.

The practical application could be the usage within a GROUP and/or
MACRO, where for security reasons a password based access to
multiple <exec\-targets> is provided, e.g. for root accounts within
a admin group.
With setting of this parameter the initial output of VNCviewer is
delayed due to it's own delay, thus a series of password requests
occur without beeing poisoned by trace messages of the parallel
executed VNCviewer.
.RE

.TP
\fBENUMERATE\fR
Not applicable.

.TP
\fBLIST\fR
Almost the same output as common standard, with following
changes in semantics.

\fBid\fR: The DISPLAY used by the vncviewer and/or vncserver.
For the actual display of the server two cases has to be
distinguished:

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBDISPLAYFORWARDING\fR
The DISPLAY of vncviewer and vncserver are identical.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONNECTIONFORWARDING\fR
The DISPLAY of vncviewer and vncserver are different, this is due to
the intermediate tunnel, which handles the port\-forwarfing and an has
to do a remapping due to ambiguity within the network scope.
The following values are not applicable:
.nf
  uuid, mac, tcp
.fi

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
\fIctys(1)\fR, \fIctys\-uc\-VNC(7)\fR, \fIctys\-plugins(1)\fR, \fIvncpasswd(1)\fR, \fIvncviewer(1)\fR, \fIvncserver(1)\fR

.SH AUTHOR
.P
Written and maintained by Arno\-Can Uestuensoez:

.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.
.RE

.P
The whole document \- all sections \- is/are defined as invariant.

.P
For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-RDP.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.005/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man1/ctys-RDP.1

