.TH "ctys-RDP" 1 "June, 2010" ""


.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-RDP - Remote Desktop Protocol Interface\fR

.SH SYNTAX

   ctys -t RDP -a action[=<suboptions>] ...
   ctys -T RDP -a action[=<suboptions>] ...
   ctys -T ALL -a action[=<suboptions>] ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBATTENTION:\fR

This plugin is actually in \fBalpha\-release\fR, thus might have some drawbacks.
The interface and integration of tools is going to be extended, currently
\fB rdesktop (http://www.rdesktop.org)\fR is the only supported client.

.P
This plugin manages within the UnifiedSessionManger RDP sessions particularly to VirtualBox(TM)
and Microsof\-Windows(TM) based machines.
Due to the intention of the RDP protocol this plugin has only a client component and
utilizes any server providing access for RDP based client attachement.
The RDP plugin encapsulates and handles the complete interaction with the local and remote
components provided by means of the client \fB rdesktop (http://www.rdesktop.org)\fR.

.P
SSH based connections are the only one supported, thus the only actual connections allowed
are to 'localhost'.
In case of servers not offering the local\-only attachement the user should setup additional
security measures e.g. by activating packetfilter rules.
The 'unmentioned\-exception' within the UnifiedSessionsManager is the attachement of consoles
to NON\-Unix boxes.
In that case a network connection is required for the current version(might change soon) and 
should be used in secure segments only,
e.g. by usage of the \fBctys\-beamer\fR to inteconnect to a secure gateway by an SSH tunnel
and bridging the last hop by native RDP.

.P
The sessions are generally categorized into two basic configurations, the coallocation of the 
client with the targeted server \- 
\fBDISPLAYFORWARDING\fR \-
and the distributed client and server location on different hosts \- 
\fBCONNECTIONFORWARDING\fR
\&.
In the latter case an intermediary SSH tunnel is created, which handles the port\-forwarding and an has
to do a remapping due to ambiguity within the network scope.
Thus the local port number and the remote portnumber on the server may frequently differ.
The required option to control the forwarding is 
\fB\-L\fR.

.P
Additional information containing use\-cases with application examples is available from
\fBctys\-uc\-RDP\fR.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a action[=<suboptions>]\fR

.TP
\fB\-a CANCEL\fR
.nf
  
  CANCEL=(<machine-address>)\e{1,n\e}
    |ALL|CLIENT|SERVER|BOTH
  
.fi


.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fB<machine\-address>\fR

For RDP the following parts of a <machine\-address> are applicable:
ID|I, LABEL|L. 
When the RDP client is used in shared\-mode,
the address applies to all sharing clients are handled
as one logical unit and CANCEL is applied to all at once.
The address could be supported with multiple instances.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBALL|BOTH|CLIENT|SERVER\fR

All enumerates are handled identical due to a client only
applicability.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-a CREATE\fR
.nf
  
  CREATE=[<machine-address>]
     [RDPPORT:<portnumber>]
     [(INSECURE):<ext-host>]
     [CONNECT|RECONNECT]
     [CONSOLE:<rdesktop>]
     [(CALLOPTS|C):<callopts>]
     [(XOPTS|X):<xopts>]
  
.fi


.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fB<machine\-address>\fR

For RDP the following parts of a <machine\-address> are applicable:
LABEL|L and port, here RDPPORT. 
When the RDP server is used in shared\-mode, the
address applies to all sharing clients.
The LABEL suboption is here mandatory.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONNECT\fR

Almost the same as REUSE, but no new server will be
started if missing.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBCONSOLE\fR

Current version supports \fBrdesktop\fR.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBINSECURE:<ext\-host>\fR

The external(!=localhost) host to be accessed by remotely attached RDP
client.
This is foreseen for blackboxes and access to MS\-Windows(TM) based 
hosts.
It should not be forced for UNIX/Linux based boxes.

.IP \(bu 3
\fBRECONNECT\fR

Similiar to REUSE, with the difference, that any
previous active client will be killed before attaching
ONE new client. Therefore in shared mode, when multiple
clients could simultaneously share one server, all
sharing clients are handled as one logical unit and will
be thus killed together.
Specific exchange of a single client is not supported.

A special may be recognized, when a local client of a 
\fBCONNECTIONFORWARDING\fR
is going to be reconnected, the replacement has to be of the same forwarding type.
This applies in general, though one machine is accessed for the new client only.
.RE

.TP
\fB\-a ENUMERATE\fR
Not applicable.

.TP
\fB\-a LIST\fR
The same output as common standard.

.SH SEE ALSO
.P
\fIctys(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-plugins(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-uc\-RDP(7)\fR

.P
\fBFor System Tools:\fR

.P
\fIrdesktop\fR: [ http://www.rdesktop.org ]

.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.

The whole document \- all sections \- is/are defined as invariant.
.RE

.P
For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-RDP.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.020/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man1/ctys-RDP.1

