.TH "ctys-uc-VNC" 1 "June, 2010" ""


.P
\&.

.SH NAME
.P
\fBctys-uc-VNC - Use-Cases for VNC\fR

.SH USE-CASES
.SS General
.P
The VNC plugin supports access to remote desktops by the NFB protocol.
The access could be either by combination of provided client and server
programs to a native target, or by utilizing the client only either to
an application or hypervisor supoorting the NFB protocol.

.P
The automated signon when connecting a vncviewer to a vncserver
requires a password as supported by vncpasswd. In order to avoid any
user interaction for password requests the password is stored into the
passwd file in \fB$HOME/.vnc\fR and is set to a default "install".
This has to be changed once installed.

.P
The default session type is \fBVNC\fR,
thus the '\-t vnc' option could be omitted within the following examples.
The call

.nf
  
  ctys -t VNC -a create=l:test
  
.fi


.P
is identical to 

.nf
  
  ctys -a create=l:test
  
.fi


.P
This behaviour could be changed within the configuration file 
\&'ctys\-conf.sh' by the variable 'DEFAULT_C_SESSIONTYPE'.
For future safety of scripts despite the pre\-set default the session type 
should be provided explicitly.

.SS Start a Local Desktop Session
.P
This opens a local session, where the VNCserver as well as the
VNCviewer are executed locally.

.nf
  
  ctys -t VNC -a create=l:tst1 
  
.fi


.P
The "localhost" is hard\-coded to behave as a sub\-shell call too, thus
the following call is internally handeled identical to the previous

.nf
  
  ctys -t VNC -a createl=l:tst1  $USER@localhost
  
.fi


.P
This case is called \fBDISPLAYFORWARDING\fR which is almost the same as the X11 display forwarding.

.TS
center, tab(^); l.
 \fBRefer to PDF/HTML for figure: DISPLAYFORWARDING\fR
.TE


.SS Start a Remote Desktop Session
.P
This call opens a remote desktop with DISPLAYFORWARDING, which is
a coallocated VNCserver with a VNCviewer on the <execution\-target>.

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a create=l:tst1 -L DISPLAYFORWARDINGF  <host>
  
.fi


.P
The same could be written as:

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a create=l:tst1 -L DF lab00
  
.fi


.P
The Client\-Location "\-L DISPLAYFORWARDING" is default for the original
distribution, thus could be written as:

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a create=l:tst1 lab00
  
.fi


.SS Start Bulk Desktop Sessions
.P
This call opens 3 desktops on the remote host. The internal limit is
set by default to 20.

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a create=bulk:3,l:tst lab00
  
.fi


.P
The following call cancels all session by addressing their labels.
The complete label is required here, which is an extended label by the
incremental bulk\-counter.

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a cancel=l:tst000,l:tst001,l:tst002 app2
  
.fi


.P
The same function with usage of IDs.

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a cancel=i:2,i:3,i:4 app2
  
.fi


.P
Current version supports as an implicit bulk addressing the keyword
"ALL" only, which kills literally all VNC session where the
appropriate permissions are available.

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a cancel=all app2
  
.fi


.P
It should be recognized, that the CANCEL action is just a call to 
"vncserver \-kill <display>" command, when this does not succeed, a "kill"
will be placed. The clients are killed by UNIX\-calls when required.

.P
So the user is responsible for shutting down applications running
within the CANCEL\-ed sessions.

.SS Start a Remote Desktop with a Local Client
.P
In case of a "Remote Desktop with Local Client" the server is started
on the given <execution\-target>, whereas the client is locally started
on the caller's machine. 
This structure is called CONNECTIONFORWARDING and requires beneath the
client and server processes a third, the connecting encrypted tunnel.
The tunnel is established by means of OpenSSH and used as the local
peer for the Client. 
This whole procedure of starting the  processes and the
establishment of the tunnel is controlled and preformed by ctys.

.P
The scenario differs in all steps except the start of the server
process from the previously described DISPLAYFORWARDING structure.
In case of CONNECTIONFORWARDING the whole process is set up in three
steps.

.RS
.IP 1. 3
start of server process
.IP 2. 3
establishment of the encrypted tunnel
.IP 3. 3
start and connect the client process to the tunnel
.RE

.P
The tunnel is established in the so
called \fBone\-shot mode\fR, where the connection is opened for an inital time
period and closes automatically when the life\-time threshhold is reached,
or afterwards, when the server disconnects. 
The period of the initial lifetime is defined by the variable
"SSH_ONESHOT_TIMEOUT", which is by default set to 20seconds.

.P
The following call starts a remote server with a local client.

.nf
  
  ctys -t vnc -a create=l:tst -L CF lab00
  
.fi


.P
\fBREMARK:\fR
When the error message \fBAuthentication Failure\fR is replied and no client
window occurs, the reason is the differing passwd files of VNC.
For the remote client by the option '\-L CF' \- ConnectionForwarding \-
the local passwd file of VNC has to contain the same password as the remote 
machine running the vncserver process.

.TS
center, tab(^); l.
 \fBRefer to PDF/HTML for figure: DISPLAYFORWARDING\fR
.TE


.P
The instances could be listed by the LIST action in several variants.
The basic call with default selection executed on the caller
workstation is:

.nf
  
  ctys -a list ws2
  
.fi


.P
The standard assignment to LIST call is "tab_tcp,both", which
displays:

.nf
  
  TCP-container|TCP-guest|label |sesstype|c|user|group    
  -------------+---------+------+--------+-+----+---------
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst000|VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst001|VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |ws2.soho.|ws2   |PM      |S|-   |-        
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst000|SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst001|SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst000|VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho     |-        |tst001|VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  
.fi


.P
Here the two tunnels could be identified as "sesstype=SSH(VNC)", and
"c=T". This indicates, that the tunnels are created for the subsystem
VNC with  the session label "tst000" and "tst001".

.P
The following call displays the same table, but with IDs instead of
LABELs.

.nf
  
  ctys -a list=tab_tcp,id ws2
  
.fi


.P
Which results to the display:

.nf
  
  TCP-cont|TCP-guest|id        |sesstype|c|user|group    
  --------+---------+----------+--------+-+----+---------
  ws2.soho|-        |50        |VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |51        |VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |../pm.conf|PM      |S|-   |-        
  ws2.soho|-        |5950-5903 |SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |5951-5904 |SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |50        |VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho|-        |51        |VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  
.fi


.P
Indicating by the default ID of tunnels, that these are tunnels
forwarding the ports "5950" to "5903" and "5951" to "5904".

.P
The display could be changed as required by usage of specific
free\-customized tables, e.g. displaying LABEL and ID columns once.

.P
The call with the whole set of involved machines as one call results to:

.nf
  
  ctys -a list=tab_tcp,id ws2 lab00 lab01
  
.fi


.nf
  
  ctys -a list=tab_tcp,id ws2 lab00 lab01
  
    
  TCP-contai|TCP-guest|id        |sesstype|c|user|group    
  ----------+---------+----------+--------+-+----+---------
  ws2.soho  |-        |50        |VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho  |-        |51        |VNC     |C|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho  |-        |d/pm.conf |PM      |S|-   |-        
  ws2.soho  |-        |5950-5903 |SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  ws2.soho  |-        |5951-5904 |SSH(VNC)|T|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |3784      |CLI     |C|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |31206     |CLI     |C|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |1         |VNC     |S|root|root     
  lab00.soho|-        |2         |VNC     |S|acue|ldapusers
  lab00.soho|-        |          |XEN     |S|-   |-        
  lab00.soho|-        |e/xen/tst1|XEN     |S|-   |-        
  lab00.soho|-        |d/pm.conf |PM      |S|-   |-        
  lab01.soho|-        |          |XEN     |S|-   |-        
  lab01.soho|-        |d/pm.conf |PM      |S|-   |-        
  
.fi


.SH SEE ALSO
.P
\fIctys(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-groups(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-macros(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-plugins(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-vhost(1)\fR
,
\fIctys\-VNC(1)\fR
, \fIvncpasswd(1)\fR, \fIvncviewer(1)\fR, \fIvncserver(1)\fR

.P
\fBFor System Tools:\fR

.P
\fIRealVNC\fR: [ http://www.realvnc.com ]

.P
\fITigerVNC\fR: [ http://www.tigervnc.org ]

.P
\fITightVNC\fR: [ http://www.tightvnc.com ]

.SH AUTHOR
.TS
tab(^); ll.
 Maintenance:^<acue_sf1@sourceforge.net>
 Homepage:^<http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org>
 Sourceforge.net:^<http://sourceforge.net/projects/ctys>
 Berlios.de:^<http://ctys.berlios.de>
 Commercial:^<http://www.i4p.com>
.TE


.SH COPYRIGHT
.P
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Ingenieurbuero Arno\-Can Uestuensoez

.P
This is software and documentation from \fBBASE\fR package,

.RS
.IP \(bu 3
for software see GPL3 for license conditions,
.IP \(bu 3
for documents  see GFDL\-1.3 with invariant sections for license conditions.

The whole document \- all sections \- is/are defined as invariant.
.RE

.P
For additional information refer to enclosed Releasenotes and License files.


.\" man code generated by txt2tags 2.3 (http://txt2tags.sf.net)
.\" cmdline: txt2tags -t man -i ctys-uc-VNC.t2t -o /tmpn/0/ctys/bld/01.11.016/doc-tmp/BASE/en/man/man7/ctys-uc-VNC.7

